# `neutron-1` Chain Details

The `neutron-1` chain will be launched as a consumer chain with Cosmos Hub network as provider chain.

## Parameters
  * **Chain-ID**: `neutron-1`
  * **denom**: `untrn`
  * **minimum-gas-prices**: `0untrn`
  * **timeout_commit**: `1s`
  * **genesis_time**: `2023-05-10T15:00:00.000000Z`
  * **Spawn time**: `2023-05-08T11:00:00Z`
    * Even if a proposal passes, the CCV state will not be available from the provider chain until after the spawn time is reached.

## Binary

The Cosmos Hub was recently upgraded to [v9.1.0](https://github.com/cosmos/gaia/releases/tag/v9.1.0), which bumps ICS to [v1.1.0-multiden](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security/tree/v1.1.0-multiden). This version introduces two new parameters to prevent Replicated Security’s logic for handling rewards to be abused as a DOS vector.

This required a release of a new version of Neutron, `v1.0.1`, which must be used for the mainnet launch. The only difference between `v1.0.0-rc1`, which was used in the proposal, and `v1.0.1` is the upgrade of Interchain Security to the latest release, `v1.2.0-multiden`: https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/compare/v1.0.0-rc1..v1.0.1.

**⚠️ All validators are required to use `v1.0.1` during the mainnet launch. The instructions on how to build `v1.0.1` can be found in the [How to Join](#how-to-join) section.**

  * **GitHub repo**: [neutron-org/neutron](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git)
  * **Release**: [`v1.0.1`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.1)
  * **Reference binary**: [neutrond-linux-amd64](./neutrond-linux-amd64)
    * The `neutrond-linux-amd64` binary is only provided to verify the SHA256. It was built with Interchain Security release [`v1.0.1`](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.1). You can generate the binary following the build instructions in that repo.
  * **Binary sha256sum**: `82b608543f2989c7c631d555767800e48f54ede389d193913136b41e5c3293ab`.

## Genesis

 * **Genesis:** [genesis.json](neutron-1-genesis.json);
 * **Checksum:** `b9c73221623ef35a2772babff3ce55ee95f8f8fed23a2efcefe1cb79cd092cf5`.

This 

1. The "ccvconsumer" section contains additional parameter due to upgrading ICS to [v1.1.0-multiden](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security/tree/v1.1.0-multiden);
2. We updated the Neutron DAO and Neutron Token Generation Event `wasm` artifacts in the genesis;

which bumps ICS to [v1.1.0-multiden](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security/tree/v1.1.0-multiden). This version introduces two new parameters to prevent Replicated Security’s logic for handling rewards to be abused as a DOS vector:

The Cosmos Hub was recently upgraded to [v9.1.0](https://github.com/cosmos/gaia/releases/tag/v9.1.0), 

- `rewards_denoms`: rewards denominations from the Consumer chain (e.g. uNTRN or IBC denoms used on the consumer chain)
- `provider_rewards_denoms`: rewards denomination from the Provider chain (e.g. uATOM)

> PLEASE MAKE SURE THAT YOU READ THE [Adding CCV parameters manually](#adding-ccv-parameters-manually) SECTION BELOW!

Final `genesis.json` file with the CCV section: 

Notice: the genesis file includes following slashing parameters:
* `signed_blocks_window` is `140000`
* `min_signed_per_window` is `5%`

### Adding CCV parameters manually

If you want to build genesis by your own please take into account difference between the `ccvconsumer` section generated by version v9.0.3 of `gaiad` and the `ccvconsumer` section required for neutron to run. Please check and add `"soft_opt_out_threshold": "0.05"` to the `params` section if it absent. Also you are required to set denoms used to apy rewards. Set `"reward_denoms": ["untrn"]` and `"provider_reward_denoms": ["uatom"]` in the `ccvconsumer` section. To simplify this process you can use following command:

`gaiad query provider consumer-genesis neutron-1 -o json | jq '.params |= . + {"soft_opt_out_threshold": "0.05", "reward_denoms": ["untrn"], "provider_reward_denoms": ["uatom"]}' `

It will query `consumer-genesis` from Cosmos Hub and will add all required fields with proper values.

For more information regarding the consumer chain creation process, see [CCV: Overview and Basic Concepts](https://github.com/cosmos/ibc/blob/main/spec/app/ics-028-cross-chain-validation/overview_and_basic_concepts.md).

## Endpoints

Seed nodes:

1. `e2c07e8e6e808fb36cca0fc580e31216772841df@p2p-erheim.neutron-1.neutron.org:26656`

Persistent nodes:

**TBA**

The following state sync node serve snapshots every 1000 blocks:

**TBA**

## How to Join

### Hardware Requirements

* 4 Cores
* 32 GB RAM
* 2x512 GB SSD

### Software Versions

| Name               | Version  |
|--------------------|----------|
| Neutron            | v1.0.1   |
| Go                 | >1.20    |


### Node manual installation

Build and install the Neutron binary. 

```
$ git clone -b v1.0.1 https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron.git
$ cd neutron
$ make install
```

after installation please check installed version by running:

`neutrond version --long`

You should see the following:
```
name: neutron
server_name: neutrond
version: 1.0.1 
commit: 2a9333c935b321cfa2cf213fb9adb38661d7f349
``` 

or you can download binary directly from our [official release](https://github.com/neutron-org/neutron/releases/tag/v1.0.1).
